[MUSIC PLAYING]
For the majority of
people on planet Earth,
it's our quest to find
the partner of our dreams.
Due to our complex nature,
subconscious programming,
and societal customs,
however, this eludes
many-- if not most-- of us.
David Price Francis tells us
that there are universal laws
governing not just our
solar system and our cosmos,
but our personal
relationships as well.
As a 30 year student of
the ancient mysteries
and esoteric sciences, he's
a very popular lecturer
because he goes into the
heart of relationship--
why they work, why they
don't, and how we can enhance
our connection with
each other, all
from an energy point of view.
And I have to say as I
was researching for this,
I wanted to find
out whether David's
book was available on Amazon.
I was totally shocked, I pulled
up the page on Amazon only
to find that your book was
200-- I have it written
down-- $291 new and $86 used.
Now thank God I
went to your site
and found that we could also
get it for $19.95, but--
True.
You know what, I don't think
I've seen very many books that
go for more than that on Amazon,
which only led me to understand
people cherish this.
They just don't know
they can go to your site,
but they cherish
this information.
It is really a
functionally sublime way
of looking at relationships
as I go through your book,
I just have to say that.
DAVID: Thank you.
So first of all, I said
enough to people in the open
to understand a little
bit about what you do.
Let's go into--
right off the bat--
the dynamics of the masculine
and feminine energies.
OK, well John Gray popularized
the topic men are from Mars,
women are from Venus.
What isn't spoken about
is the energy reality
behind that, that
Mars is representative
of a red energy-- a red power.
There's a saying I grew up
with which is frogs and snails
and puppy dog's tails--
REGINA: Yes.
--that's what little
boys are made off.
That's what little
Martians are made
of-- sour things, red
things, more acidic,
short-range, iron, metal iron.
The woman, on the other hand, is
more to do with sugar and spice
and all things nice, that's what
little Venusians are made of.
That's to do with the
color blue, copper.
The man is the rod,
woman is the cup.
So we have a
fundamental difference
in the nature of energetics
that both are connected to.
Up until the age of 11, that
energy connection is held
in abeyance-- that's why we
have the term boy and girl--
but then the moment the energies
actually start to come through,
it's the energies
that trigger puberty.
Oh, is that right?
DAVID: Yeah,
energies come first.
So puberty is triggered
by the energy connection,
and there's the
full-on amperage that
goes with the
masculine power, starts
to work through
the man's system,
and that brings chemical
and biological changes,
but it starts energetically.
In the woman's system,
again, puberty is triggered
and it's a whole different
set of energies, which is then
symbolized in the
material worlds
by a different form and shape.
Those energies
are complementary.
We're not the opposite sex,
we're actually designed to be
complementary to each other.
You even refer
to it as the term
the anodes and cathodes
of the human race.
DAVID: Yeah, yes.
-Which is very appropriate.
Yes, and so when you have
a man and a woman looking
at each other--
for example, we're
looking at each other right
now-- there's a natural passage
of ions between us.
That's why the title of the
book is "Partners in Pass-ion--"
or "Passion--" because
when you look up the word
"ion" in "Webster's Dictionary,"
it says an ion is a positively
or negatively charged particle.
And we can, of course, have
positively and negatively
charged relationships.
So it's all about the
ions that are processing
and when the anode and
the cathode come together,
they create between
them a third field-- I
call it the relationship field.
And inside of that field,
we plant the energies that
then grow in the relationships.
It's not by chance
it's called an energy
field, because we literally
plant energies in the field.
OK, so before we get into
the nature of that third,
I'd like you to define
in your own way--
because you look at it
differently-- the word passion.
Because most people would
hear this and think oh,
this is a hot,
steamy love affair.
Passion is a much broader term
in the way you're using it.
Yes.
That passion is to do with the
hot end of the energy spectrum.
So you literally have
the idea oh, he's red hot
or she's red hot,
he's so hot he's cool.
It's the cutest thing, that's
when it goes from red to blue.
So the energy spectrum
has a hot end--
which is the red end-- then
it moves up to the violet end.
So with all the
colors in between--
this turns up in the chakra
system as the seven colors,
but also in the
human energy field.
You're in your energy
field right now,
I'm in my energy field also,
we have a coat of many colors,
a cloak of many colors.
We're rainbow people.
REGINA: Right.
So we have seven
different levels of energy.
So the kind of passion that
can pass between two people,
it ranges from red all
the way up to violet.
So therefore--
And it can be
positive or negative.
Absolutely.
You can passionately love
someone or passionately
dislike them and be
repelled by them,
but so strongly
that it's charged
in what you say is passion.
And it can flick
from one to the other.
Something that's a
red hot love affair
can become a red
hot hate affair.
REGINA: Yes.
It's interesting the way--
REGINA: So it really has to do
with charge, energetic charge.
It's totally to
do with the charge.
And what actually draws
people together very
often is the look in the eye.
I like to say that the energy
fields share the first kiss,
because it all happens
energetically first.
I'm sure the audience know
the experience of walking
into a room and they
look around the room
and their eyes catch one
particular person out of maybe
100, and they know
that's the person
that they're going to speak to.
Because something
jumps from their eyes
to the other person's eyes
and they both feel it.
And it's not solid, it's
not liquid, it's not gas,
it's energy, and it
passes through the eyes.
Partly because the eyes are the
only living tissue that we see.
The eyes are the
windows to the soul,
the eyes are also
the main transmitters
of the ions that pass from us.
Well, and even beyond eyesight,
a girlfriend was telling me
recently-- she's newly in love--
and she said it was bizarre,
I could feel this person
behind me in the room
before they ever walked
around and before I saw them.
Yes, yes.
There's an amazing story-- this
is actually my wife's father,
this is how she came
to be in the world.
He walked into an office and
saw the back of her mother
and knew instantly that this was
the woman he wanted to marry.
And she felt him in the
room and knew something
had changed behind her.
And that is exactly
what happens.
REGINA: Yes.
Without that experience,
Joanna would not have been born.
So to ignore the energetic
factor of relationships
is to ignore what
is the relationship.
So now we can go into
that third entity.
Yes, and any word
that ends in "ion"--
I always put this forward
with energy worlds--
any word that ends in "ion"
is to do with energies.
So we look at the word
relation, it's "relate" "ion."
We relate to each other
energetically first.
And how strange it is when
someone has dark glasses on
and you're trying
to engage with them,
because the dark glasses cut off
the transmission and reception.
So when two people sit
together, come together--
we right now are creating a
relationship field between us.
And according to what
we plant in that field,
that then causes us to have
inspiration when we meet again
and desperation--
Good thing since the
show is "Inspirations."
Exactly.
So according to what ions
are actually planted,
the field can become toxic.
So you can have that red
hot end that can go toxic
or it can be something which
provides mutual inspiration
and provides mutual
encouragement, mutual support.
This is where long-term
relationships,
they take the basic passion with
which the relationship often
triggers and then develop it
through passion into purpose,
and possibly even
through purpose
into becoming partners
in evolution, which
is more of a spiritual kinship.
But it begins with that first
flash or exchange of power
and an attraction that takes
place between the two people.
And then it all
comes down to what
do they actually do with that?
And there's timings involved,
because the first timing
is will it last the
28-day cycle of the moon.
Let's start about that.
OK, so here we are.
We've met someone and
it's certainly our dream
that this person is going to
fulfill everything in our lives
for us.
So that first spark
of recognition,
which can-- I
assume-- be inspired
by many, many different things.
Yes, so there's
that initial charge--
and both feel it
as a charge when
it's mutual-- there's a charge.
And the two people,
they find a way
to talk to each
other-- that's where
you get past the inhibit ions.
This is why there's alcoholic
cocktail parties and things,
it helps break down a little bit
of the inhibitions, especially
in England.
-Exactly.
People then talk
with each other
and they engage
and they discover
if they want to re-engage.
So they go on a
first date, I call
it energy dating because it
starts in the energy worlds.
They go on a first date.
At the end of that date,
do they feel lifted up,
inspired, do they feel better?
If they feel better,
they're inclined to want
to go on a second date.
We all know this, it's the
energy 101, kind of obvious,
but it's very, very significant.
Because at the end,
if both parties
feel like that was actually
a little bit depressing--
or depress ion, I didn't really
enjoy it that much-- they'll
say should we do this again?
No, not really,
we'll give it a pass.
But if it lifts them both
up, they're saying oh,
can we meet again tomorrow,
maybe on Thursday?
And the glue that's
in a relationship
is that third field makes
them both feel better.
So then you have this state of
the buoyancy of being in love,
like the energy becomes
so strong it actually
lifts the person
up so their energy
field becomes more vibrant.
When you learn to
see energy fields,
you can actually see
it changes color.
You can see, for example,
a bright yellow, which
is to do with the emotion,
and their energy field
lifts them up.
So like in the song
in "My Fair Lady,"
it's just on the
street where you live,
but he's kind of floating
along the street.
That's that feeling of love
which lifts the person up.
If they both feel that,
then they could be pining
for their food, their
workmates look at them go ugh,
she must be love,
she must be in love.
Right, you can see it.
They have a certain glow about
them, it's an energy charge.
And then will that
charge sustain
over time then depends upon how
they engage with each other.
REGINA: So why is it that
normally that charge starts
dissipating in most cases?
You may even choose
to make a go of it
and make a relationship
of it, but nonetheless--
as by looking at
divorce statistics--
why do these charges
then start dissipating?
One thing is at the end of
the traditional fairy story,
it says "and then
they lived happily
ever after" instead
of "and then the work
program really started."
Because it is a work program
to actually deliberately,
consciously develop what I call
a mutual relationship field,
and to plant in it
the things you want.
Let's say one partner
wants something
they feel is missing
in the relationship,
they want extra warmth.
The first responsibility--
they've become aware of it--
is for them to energetically
add extra warmth--
Instead of waiting
for it to come to them.
DAVID: Or asking for it.
Or asking for it.
And this is what we're
really shy to do.
If they ask for
it in words, then
it's-- but when you generate.
So when you generate that
property, a bit more of it,
hopefully the other
person then reciprocates.
But it's kind of leading in
the relationship by example.
You don't ask for something
without generating a bit of it
yourself, because that
provides the charge to change.
It's not really
fair to tell someone
to change without giving them
some energy to do it with.
Yes, and that's the saying.
If you want something,
be the first to give it.
So that makes
perfect sense, you're
establishing an energetic
imprint or pattern.
OK, so say you've decided yes,
I would like to explore-- you're
mutually in the
yellow zone floating,
and you want to explore it
further and you decide to date.
And you talk about dating
from an energy point of view.
Yes, yes.
An example of energy
dating-- improving
energy dating practice.
Really one of the first clues
is to be true to yourself,
be true to your own authentic
signal that you send out.
Spend a whole lot of
time talking about this,
because this is missing.
For most people, this seems
to be missing in relationship.
Right.
Well if a person tries
to be what they think
the other person wants, so
they dress up in all the latest
brand name stuff and
they kit themselves out
according to what the
street-- which really is what
the mass media is promoting.
Because every day we're subject
to thousands of messages
from the mass media and causing
us to be influenced and take
on certain acts, take
on certain attributes,
be a certain way, which is
not natural to our core.
So our core is like
our natural essence,
and then we adopt
things from the outside.
If we adopt ways
of going on that
are not true to
our natural core,
we actually lose our signal.
We start to not be ourselves, we
start to not be like ourselves,
and this is a really key thing.
When we start to not
be like ourselves,
it's not far down the
road until we start
to not like ourselves at all.
That's when you start to have
people feeling they don't feel
like them, because their
core has been overcome by all
the mass signals they take in.
And also perhaps by
fear-- because again, you
have this relationship
in the beginning that
has this exuberance to it
and before you know it,
fear start seeping in.
Oh, this is so wonderful, what
if I lose this relationship?
And that seems to
distort and throw--
I know, women in particular--
them into patterns
of becoming pleasers.
The man was originally attracted
to their authentic signal,
right, and vice versa?
-Yes.
A great example is
a radio set-- just
a simple, practical example--
the old-fashioned kind
with the dial.
And when you get
the dial on station,
you get this
beautiful music, but
if the dial turns off station,
you start to get static.
So when a person starts to
produce static because they're
no longer true to their
own authentic self,
then it's very hard
to pick up their song.
And so what gets
attracted is no longer
what's on their frequency.
So we actually
are in a situation
where when we can be
true to ourselves,
we sing our own song.
When that song goes
out into the ether,
someone else can
actually register
and pick up what that song
is and they come to it.
But if we're not actually
tuned into ourselves--
it's like if we decide we're
going to take on the goth look,
but that's nothing to
do with our reality
but it's come upon
us from the outside.
We've just become
another goth look person,
rather than being authentic--
And our own signal
starts becoming obscured.
Exactly.
And it could go from goth
look to "Vogue" model
to whatever the model would be.
Or in a man's world it's going
to be whether it's following
NASCAR or wearing certain
sporty things from gentlemen's
magazines or--
whatever the thing,
there's a massive influence
that comes towards the person
and when we adopt
those signals, they can
obscure our actual core signal.
So when that happens, first
we can't find our partner,
and then if we are
fortunate enough to engage,
if we become pleasers--
so we think oh,
what does he really
want me to be?
What does she really
And I know women who
are amazing women,
powerful women in their own
right, talented, beautiful.
They go into a relationship and
the first thing that happens
is you start losing yourself
in fear you're going to lose
the guy, and starting to
please and become what
you think that person wants.
As I mentioned earlier,
this is epidemic.
Yes.
And then the relationship
field loses its power,
which is why the
guy in this instance
then starts to lose interest.
Well, it's like hey, how about
if we take a little break?
Or I'll call you next
week instead of tomorrow.
You start noticing
the signals, and then
they've made popular
movies such as "He's
Just Not That Into You."
That's really what's
happening, though, isn't it?
You lost your own signal.
So when there's a clear--
the anode and cathode idea--
when there's a clear
signal from both parties,
you get a little
spark in the middle.
But then when one of them
changes to please the other,
it's like the anode tries
to change its nature
and then the level
of spark goes down.
So it's very
interesting time-wise
because the first test of a
relationship is a 28-day cycle,
it's a 28-day test.
It's actually finding out is
the relationship more than skin
deep?
And I say it very advisedly
because every 28 days,
we lose our skin cells.
-Yes.
Thankfully not all at once.
And the women go through
their own menstrual cycle
every 28 days, cycles.
Exactly.
The moon, yeah.
So there's a moon cycle,
which is the first test
of a relationship.
The second one is
fascinating, it's 28 seasons.
So it goes from the moon
cycle to the planetary cycle.
28 seasons gives us
the seven year itch.
Oh, I see.
OK.
So the seven year itch, it used
to be said how every organ gets
changed every seven years.
REGINA: Yeah, 7 years times
4 seasons, 28 seasons, OK.
Yes.
So then the woman looks
at the man and says,
you're not the man I married.
And it's true,
because every cell's
been changed except the
cells in the brain, the eyes.
This is where the eyes are
constant, and the spine.
So the brain system,
being the spine
and the brain and the head.
And that then moves to
another cycle, which
is a very interesting one
because I'm getting increasing
evidence to do with
the divorce rate
having a little up, certainly
in terms of stories from people
I talk to.
Around the 28th year mark,
which is where-- traditionally,
28 years would really be
the whole of the lifespan
of a relationship.
Go back to Victorian England
when the average age of death
was in the 40s.
-Kind of a normal lifespan.
-Exactly.
But 28 years now can be halfway
through the relationship.
But it doesn't change
the energetic dynamic
and the seasons and cycles.
-Correct.
And so with this Saturnian
cycle, the question then
comes does the relationship
have another level of purpose
to hold the glue, to hold them
together, to move on into the
what next?
So there's a symbol-- which
is really a very prime symbol
for the masculine,
feminine dynamic--
and it's the symbol
of the fleur-de-lis.
It's a symbol of-- it was in the
Royal House of the Bourbons--
and you've got the masculine
being one leaf over here,
you've got the feminine
being the other leaf,
and then what they
power is in the middle.
The core of the fleur-de-lis
is their mutual purpose.
So I call it a mutually-agreed
purpose or map.
And when a couple
have a map and they
have a mutually-agreed
purpose, it brings that power
into their relationship.
Now it can be of different
levels of energy.
Two people can have a purpose,
which is to be politically
successful-- in the
political matrix--
to be politically successful,
to be social clients,
to have a high level of
prestige in the world.
That's in the lower
end of the energy bar.
But still, let's
say that that's
their agreed-upon
purpose, they've
come together for societal,
social, monetary purposes.
What can you expect about
an authentic dynamic
in that, either being true
to what they each desire
individually-- but as you
say, it's on the lower
part of the spectrum-- what does
that do to this third entity,
the relationship?
Well, it means what they grow
in their field between them
are things like mutual
support to further
their political
agenda, mutual support
to further their
political career,
referencing each other
out to other people.
So they support each
other at that level,
and that could last a lifetime.
It can, but then
you find situations--
when you read the headline news,
for example-- where politicians
often find that other
part-- that other
spark of their life--
with other individuals.
That doesn't mean
they're necessarily going
to find that with each other.
Correct, yes.
Another example-- a more
toxic example-- is you
can get a couple come together
to pursue criminality or abuse.
So a good example of
that is Bonnie and Clyde.
REGINA: Right.
You wouldn't want to meet them.
It's great that they have the
legend of Bonnie and Clyde,
but they're not two people you'd
want to meet on a country road.
And especially, aren't they
then amplifying that energy
by joining into this together?
Exactly, so what
you have is you've
got the Mars power--
which is that red, more
short-range power-- and you've
got the Venus power-- which
is that blue, longer-range
power-- and the two of them
are like the left and right
hand of the human team.
That's how I see it.
I mean, you don't get one
hand-- you go to do something
and this hand stops it.
That's like one part
of the gender relation
being dominant upon the other.
And I want to talk to you
about that in a minute.
So that would be a real
blocker to human development
for both parties, so
we're actually designed
so we're complementary.
We're different
energies, but they're
complementary to each other
moving in a third direction.
That's what that
fleur-de-lis symbol--
But each one has to
be authentic and true
to their own signal.
DAVID: Yes.
Their own truth, their own
desires, their own destiny.
The problem is if we even have
the clarity within to know
those things, because
again, individually we're
being pressured from outside
stimuli and demands that make
it very hard to hear our own
signal and thus project it,
because we don't
know what we are.
We don't know what we want,
we don't know what we think,
we're too busy trying
to please everybody.
Yeah, so if you
have a relationship
based on social
obligation, then that's
the level it gets caught at.
And when two people actually
are both authentic--
let's say we're right now in
the "Inspirations" program
and it's about increasing
global consciousness--
there's consciousness
in the relationship.
So when two people come
together and they both
share the authentic
purpose of wanting
to raise their level
of consciousness,
they can help each other do
that and they can get to levels
that they would not be
able to on their own
because they actually
bring the forces together,
and that's where one
and one becomes three.
What if you're a
woman sitting there?
Let's say we're talking
about the same thing--
that you and I have
the same polarity--
and you're a woman
telling me the same thing.
Would this information not be
enhanced to the same degree,
or maybe not heard or
received to the same degree?
It's the same information--
it would be the same energy,
the same potency-- so in that
respect, yes it should be heard
and listened to, to the
same degree, absolutely.
OK.
I'm just wondering if there's
an intrinsic dynamic to being
able to experience or take
in something as a result
of this anode-cathode.
Well, there certainly
is in the way
that the woman holds the--
it's in the book-- is
the woman has 2/3
feminine power,
but at the core
is 1/3 masculine.
And the man--
-Yes, that was fascinating.
--2/3 masculine, and at
the core is 1/3 feminine.
That's what was meant
by the yin-yang symbol,
it's what it symbolizes.
So the man is always trying to
complete himself by connecting
with that energy in the
woman, and the woman
seeks to complete
herself by connecting
to that energy in the man, and
so they spin around each other.
Let's talk about that, because
when you start dating-- when
I was reading that in your book,
I thought that was fascinating.
So you meet someone, this person
has elevated your awareness
and your energies-- you're
actually not seeking
their feminine then,
you're saying-- if you're
a man-- you're seeking the
higher masculine portion
of the woman's field.
So you're seeking
to complete yourself
by engaging in that
complementary relationship.
Because the higher
part of the Mars
force is held in the woman.
Interesting example, take
Margaret Thatcher in Britain,
she was call the Iron Lady.
Iron is to do with Mars.
Copper-- it's
intersting, copper's
on the beat in Britain.
Copper is more to do with
blue-- regulation blue,
regulating blue,
more long-range.
So a natural way of
development, a good example
is-- I'm jumping a little
bit-- but the Iroquois League,
they actually had a system
where the men would get together
and they'd have a red council.
And they'd go grr, we're going
to go and fight the Seneca.
But before they would,
they would actually
go and check in with
the clan mothers-- who
were the blue
council-- and the clan
mothers would then
assess whether that
was wise for the long term.
Because men tend to
be tunnel vision,
men like to make pointy things.
They tend to go for the point.
And even physically,
peripheral vision in a woman
is greater than in the man.
So the man is much more
pointed towards a target.
Well, then you say that
red energy is a more short
fuse, a short-term energy.
DAVID: So it's got a
short range frequency.
The blue has got the
long-range frequency,
so it was the women who would
have the final decision.
So if the women,
if the clan mothers
said no, you're not going
to go and fight the Seneca,
they would not go.
Because they wouldn't
defy the clan mothers.
So in our world
government today,
we're so messed up because the
men have got so much control.
To me, if I was in charge
of the United Nations--
if that were to
be-- I would look
for an energetic equality--
50% men, 50% women.
Not in terms of
academic qualifications,
intellectual qualifications,
all that stuff,
but there'd be a
balance of the energies.
Because as long as
the women's energy is
not there in a strong
enough way, the men
are short-term thinkers--
Well, that's what
we have today.
Military-industrial
complex, picking
one more after another for a
quick profit and exploitation.
That would be very
male, wouldn't it?
DAVID: That would be
very red, very acidic.
It's also very interesting
in terms of the word acid.
So we're in a time where the
world is becoming acidic,
but the planet is naturally
more alkaline blue.
So the planet is more
feminine, so we call the planet
the Great Mother, our mother.
And so the masculine
influence needs
to be restrained and
subject to the cooling
influence of the feminine.
Which is interesting--
DAVID: The masculine's
run away with itself.
Absolutely.
And this is coming forward
more, where more women are doing
their role, providing
a role such as what
I'm providing right now.
And the men who are more
open and really evolved
in their thinking are
not fighting this,
but welcoming this in,
because they inherently
seem to understand, there is a
deep healing within themselves
in that sense.
We're going to get to that
and talk about what happens
in entire societies when you
start repressing the feminine,
and then also what
happens even in dream time
as we sleep alongside
one another.
So we'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All right, we're back.
And we're going to look at
what happens when you take
an entire culture where the
women have been subjugated
to whatever the male agenda
is-- and some of them going on
for thousands of years--
and why that country really
can't progress.
-Yes.
Well, what happens-- as in an
individual relationship-- when
the red power
subjugates the blue,
then the blue is not able
to provide the cooling,
the nurturing, the nourishing
in the way that it can
when it's able to fully
express itself and be itself.
So the men actually cut
off their own fuel supply,
the men actually cut
off the power they
need for their development.
So those countries get
caught in a backward spiral,
and they also
become very red hot.
So they get to be more
masculine-dominated.
When you get something
that's red hot,
it puts out a lot of
friction and a lot of heat,
and that then leads to
tribal conflict, warfare.
And it's a very bad--
Kind of like what we were
talking about before the break.
But this just goes on and on,
it really can't heal itself,
can it?
As long as the women are
suppressed, it cannot.
So part of the key
to this new time
is the fact of--
the new age which
we hear so much
about-- is that there's
a rising feminine power.
There's a blue wave coming and
the red wall is going down.
Whether it's now,
whether it's in 10 years,
whether it's in 20 years, we're
not going to see situations
like we see in North
Korea where you get
all the men along the table
and the women are coming
behind carrying cups of tea.
It's over.
-Right.
But the men-- that's
not to say all men--
but that red masculine
history, the patriarchy,
isn't going to let go easy.
So the old ways are holding
on as long as they can-- so
patriarchal
societies, patriarchal
views-- the old ways that
resist the new wave are
still pushing back.
But as far as I'm concerned-- we
can see it very strong in North
America-- it's the
women who are leading
the way in terms of that quest
into spiritual consciousness.
When I go to events
deliberately-- just
sometimes to see who's
there and to count--
and I go to new
consciousness events,
usually it's eight women to
two men, nine women to one man.
That's the kind of
ratio I'm seeing,
because the women's
instinct is more
turned in to what's changing.
Yes, and that takes
women into a new area.
And I've noticed something
that's kind of interesting--
and partially I think it has to
do with women who are over 40
or 50 or 60 as well--
but there is a parting
of ways with a lot
of women I know
and their men, in that the men
want to keep the relationship
going as it is and the
women want to unplug
and oftentimes, they don't
want to have intimate relations
with the men anymore.
And I'm seeing this a lot,
I'm hearing this a lot now.
Yes, yes.
So what's taking place
is the women naturally
want to spiritually evolve.
There's a power
coming to the planet--
this is where the bigger
picture of the energy worlds.
These times are changing times.
If we look at the last 30 years
and the amount of energy work
which is now taking place, I
was teaching people 35 years ago
how to see the energy
worlds, how to feel them,
how to work with them, and it
was very strange to people.
Now they're into
Reiki and Qi Gong
and therapeutic touch--
energy healing of all kinds--
because the amount
of energy that's
coming through the planet
is increasing very quickly.
It's part of the shift
into the Age of Aquarius,
because Aquarius is
not a water carrier
but is actually the
carrier of energy or power.
So there's a major
surge of power going on,
and the women are
picking up on it first
with their good, blue,
long-range instinct.
The men are more hanging into
the old ways, the old red ways.
So the natural state--
which is really
what I think we want to be
focusing on in the long term--
is that the red and the blue
have a true state of energy
quality, essence quality,
equality, that they're
actually in partnership.
And between them, they
produce a third state--
REGINA: Right.
--which in Japan they
call it Wa, harmony.
The red and the blue--
the Venus and the Mars--
produce a third state which--
just like on the pH strips
for litmus-- if it's too
alkaline it goes blue,
if it's two acid it goes red.
If you've got a nice balance,
you get white in the middle.
And what we're looking
for is that harmony state,
and that's why when there's
a balanced relationship
in a house, then
there's an energy
which can be felt in its healing
and it's nice to be there.
But that's not what a
lot of houses feel like.
And even though you
have relationships that
are considered from
the outside oh,
they're a good, solid
couple, they've been together
for 25 years, the kids are
in college now, it's good,
it's good.
Yet you see this withering
inside of individuals,
and then it gets
us to the subject
of infidelity versus monogamy.
Where as you write in the
very beginning of your book,
sometimes you have an
encounter with someone
and there's this incredible
electricity flying
between the two
of you but you're
in a committed
relationship or they're
in a committed relationship.
And now you're getting into
bumping up against something
that appears to have
some authenticity in it,
bumping up against the societal
standards, cultural standards.
And also probably--
What does that do to a person?
Well, it's also bumping up
against pre-made commitments
and contracts.
So that's where it comes
to a very important part
of the authenticity, I call
it being your own boss, which
is the-- and the original
meaning of the word boss
is that the boss is
the center of a wheel.
So it's been changed
over the years
to bosses, offices,
and all that,
but the origin is to do
with the hub of the wheel,
the center of the wheel.
So when a person is
authentic in themselves
and they make commitments from
the center of their wheel,
then they keep the integrity
of those commitments.
If they're so attracted
to another person,
their integrity will cause them
to go to their existing partner
and say, I've got this
incredible attraction
to this person over here and
I want to break this contract.
And then everything
comes down on that,
but they're not going
off and undercover
having an affair
on the side which
they're not talking about.
Right, because energetically
what happens when they're not?
Most people are not upfront.
I mean, the number of affairs
percentage-wise is significant.
And so let's say they go the
other way and they think gosh,
I have this thing, I owe it
to myself to give it a try,
and then they sneak around.
Then what happens is
that the energy that's
in the core relationship--
it's meant to be, it's
like by design-- depends
on the relationship
that people set up
in the first place.
But if they're trying to
deal from boss to boss,
from one core to the other--
Two whole beings to the other--
Endeavoring to make
that kind of contract.
And then they gradually
lose that connection,
so they find themselves moving
in a different direction.
The power that was
there between them
no longer goes into
that third field,
so the other partner starts
to feel like what's wrong?
Something's the matter, I've
just got this feeling that he
doesn't send me flowers
anymore, we don't laugh together
anymore, something's changed.
The classic example used to be
when there's the new secretary
at the office or
whatever, and they're
not actually having an
affair but the energy
is leaving the system.
REGINA: Right.
It's the same thing when
speaking about cyber sex.
So the energy still
leaves the system,
even though there isn't
anything actually physically,
materially happening.
In the energy worlds,
it's still rupturing,
so the energies are leaving.
So when it comes to a
long-term relationship
and seeking to build a
long-term relationship,
it's actually deliberately
planting the qualities
you want in the field.
Because then there's a
comparison that's like,
there's this very
powerful attraction here
but there's 20 years
building something
that can't be replicated.
You don't get 20 years
to do that again.
So what's in the balance is--
And we can see those, too.
And part of what I was
asking about before is
the nature of deceit,
which goes against-- I
mean, our fields know the truth
even if our brain doesn't, even
if we're in denial.
Some aspect of our being--
because we're connected
with each other--
knows the truth,
and so what happens when you
go into deceptive business
with say, a third partner?
That's what I'm
asking, does that
affect on the energy field?
Yes, because that produces--
in the energy worlds--
it's actually a low
green frequency.
It's like they say you
go green with envy,
it's to do with a
certain frequency
and it comes into the field.
It's like the field
between the two people
gets invaded by
an energy blight,
so when one can see these
things energy worlds first,
then the process of building
and nurturing that field
is a very deliberate process.
So one wouldn't just
turn away after 20 years
and walk away from it
because it's too precious.
But if it has not been well
cared for-- if it's not been
well tended, if there
hasn't been work
go into the relationship--
then the valencies--
like in chemistry-- the
valency that holds the couple
together gets to be very weak.
And divorce is two words
in one, division of forces.
So the forces divide because
there's more attraction,
for example, in the
woman to someone
who's just entered
over here, but
there's a powerful green flash.
Because what's happening
with the other man
has got rather old and
tired and doesn't actually
have the passion
anymore or the purpose.
Purpose can replace passion.
And let's talk about that now,
how we feed that field you're
talking about so
that we can have more
of a long-term shot at
it through a purpose that
is agreed upon.
Yes.
Let's start really close
to home for the watchers,
which is that in the house where
you live, what is in the house?
How does it come
to be in the house?
Everything that's in the
house reflects the energies
that partnership has
brought together.
So if someone's single, it
shows the energies they've
surrounded themselves with.
If they're in a relationship
and they're both living in that
place, every single
item in the house
is a little mini radio
set, it's a token,
it's a talisman that
connects to an energy.
So are the energies
fresh and moving forward?
Is the furniture in the same
position it was 10 years ago?
Are the things on the wall the
same as they were 10 years ago?
Have you dusted lately?
DAVID: If so, it's likely
the energies have got stuck.
If the relationship is fresh,
things get moved around,
things change,
there's new projects.
And when there's new projects,
there's actually new energies
coming to the relationship.
So when two people get
fed up with each other--
which is what often
precedes divorce--
it's like these two mugs.
They actually-- if you imagine
this is the man and the woman--
and they get locked
into each other.
So what you then have
is they're static
and-- this is one of the things
that happens and often brings
an early divorce-- is
they try and complete
their life with each other.
You see this very often
with young couples,
they're clasping each
other like if only
they could just bring
the other person
entirely inside themselves.
But the laws of the
universe don't allow it,
so they have to
build a relationship
because that's the
way it's been set up,
it's the way it's
established here.
So with these two, if they
stay in the same place
and they just stay
doing the same things,
after about seven years they
get fed up with each other.
If, however, you can imagine
that there's a third power--
we'll use this as an example--
and this is their purpose
and it pulls them,
then you actually
have the whole thing moving.
And they're never
in the same energy,
from one day to the next.
-Yes.
So the relationship has
fresh energies coming into it,
and so it's like a wise
man once said to me,
a minute-by-minute love
affair lasts forever.
It's a beautiful idea
because the energies are
fresh that's coming through.
This is why it's like--
take the example with Joanna
and myself-- we've
been working together--
not just married together, but
building a business together--
for 34 years.
So that's like a
double marriage because
of all the energy and time.
And if we were just
looking at each other
to complete each other, we would
have parted a long time ago.
And our own contract
is we'll stay together
as long as it works,
which means we
have the freedom to walk away.
Even though we've been together
34 years, we're not locked
and that means that
we're able to make
it work from day-to-day.
So there has to be a process
of creation every single day.
DAVID: Absolutely, absolutely.
And you create ions, which
is creating new energies.
And the way I see
it my entire life,
I've always seen relationships
that-- symbolically,
looking at it-- that work
or where the two people seem
to be facing forward together,
facing the same direction,
and either walking very close
to each other or holding hands.
And it's that outward
participation and engagement
with life that keeps
them propelling forward,
versus a stagnancy
of looking at,
peeking at, trying to control,
staring at each other.
That just seems like
a death warrant.
Yes, yes, yes.
And they even show this in
postures in Egypt, which
is something that I teach in
my workshops, which is where
they had certain postures
to boost the energy
field between people.
And so they had
certain postures that
literally would boost the
soul of the man and the woman.
And so we can't show one here
now, but one of the postures
will be standing
and the man places
his right hand at the
base of the woman's spine,
but not quite touching.
The right hand, so right
behind the base of the spine--
-At the sacrum.
And the woman
holds her left hand
at the base of the man's spine,
and then they have their feet
in a particular position.
And then they're looking--
just as you said--
instead of looking
at each other,
they're both looking
long distance.
In the same direction?
In the same direction, so
they're looking long distance
in the same direction.
You see the same thing
in the royal courts.
We can show this one, which
is if I had my hand here,
yours would go just on
top at about an inch away,
and then if we were
in a procession--
a state procession--
Feel energy.
Yeah, it's startling.
We'd both be looking
that way and we
would literally walk in a
procession, and that would be--
Like the stately court dances
you're speaking about, yes.
We've seen examples
of this, yes,
where they're not
actually touching.
And I always thought it was
a puritanical thing, like oh,
they didn't touch back then.
No, this was for purpose.
The idea of not
touching was to build
the power, because
when you touch,
you actually ground the energy.
You ground it down.
So they would
deliberately not touch,
so I actually teach
court dancing.
REGINA: Yes.
I was doing this a while
ago with a whole gathering--
I heard from some
people that went
to your court dancing class,
they said it was amazing.
And what we were doing was
literally using these postures
to build the soul power
between the men and the women,
and the amazing thing is
it lifts above personality.
Because what happens
is in the court dances,
there's an engagement
with the eyes.
And you look into the
other person's eyes
and it's like looking into the
soul force of the other half
of the universe, in a way.
It's like the masculine
represents one power
of the universe, the feminine
represents a different power
of the universe.
So when they look at each
other without the trappings
and just really-- almost
like a naked look-- then
the two powers can look at
each other through human eyes.
That's very frightening for
the majority of the population.
Which is why it works
in a court dance,
because it has a framework.
REGINA: It has a framework.
That's very-- yes.
So it gives permission.
And I want to talk
about something
that happened yesterday.
So we met before, we met for
a little business meeting
last night so I
could get to know
some of the other
information not in the book.
And as we were walking along,
what was so interesting
is you were telling me
about-- and I had already
read-- that if the man has the
woman on his right-hand side--
and so it would be the man's
right hand and the woman's
left hand like this.
But even if you're
not holding hands--
you can be holding hands or
you can just be walking down
the street-- this side creates a
positive field between the two.
So David had told me this, so
we're walking along together.
We tried it out and
we're walking along,
and what happened is
when I was on this side
I noticed-- as we were just
talking-- our bodies were
automatically just
gravitating toward each other
until I bumped into him,
shoulder-to-shoulder.
Then one of us did a switcharoo
around to the other side,
to try the other side, and
it was almost a-- you're not
repulsive, I'm not
saying that-- but there
was a repulsing type of energy.
I felt suddenly much
cooler, more distant,
and was wedging away from you.
Which I found
absolutely fascinating,
people need to try this.
-Absolutely.
And they do it already
instinctively because I'm
sure that everybody watching
us had the experience,
they're walking along beside
somebody and for some reason
they feel like they're
on the wrong side,
and they switch sides
but they don't know why.
But they just feel an
instinct to switch sides.
What they're doing is balancing
the energy flow-- they're
making it stronger,
they're making it weaker,
whatever the case is-- and their
instinct is doing it for them.
And this is the reverse
polarities of male-female,
it's very simple, energetic.
So again, in Egypt
they show postures that
demonstrate the polarities.
So they show that the man's
hand has a positive transmitting
polarity, and the
woman's left hand has
a positive
transmitting polarity,
and it crisscrosses throughout
the whole body, which
is demonstrated with
diagrams in the book.
So when we're actually positive
to positive, we boost the flow.
When we go negative to
negative, we calm it down.
And knowing that, you
can use it deliberately.
And here I think is a really
important thing because I
taught this many
years ago, but it
wasn't as potent as it is now.
So what's coming is with the
new energies that are coming in,
these fields and the phenomena
that we have with these fields
are getting stronger.
So that's why your audience may
start now to feel and register
these things in a
way they couldn't
before, because the energies
are getting much more potent.
And I would prophecize--
make a prophecy
on air-- that in 10 years,
they'll be more potent still.
Yes, that makes total
sense with what's going on.
So what happens when you're
a man and a man then,
and you're trying to develop
rapport in a relationship--
or friendship or
business or whatnot--
and you don't have
this natural affinity?
How do men then
tend to positively
approach each other and bond?
One interesting thing
is men being all red,
men tend to do things together.
Men don't tend to be so
happy being together,
they don't tend to find
them just hanging out.
REGINA: They're not
sipping lattes all day.
DAVID: No, they tend to
be wanting to billiards,
NASCAR, do this, do that.
There was a poet,
Robert Graves, he
wrote a beautiful poetry book
called "Man Does, Woman Is."
So the woman contains
more of the being.
So therefore, for women to
get together and talk and chat
and hang out, they don't need
to be so much doing something,
it's enough to be.
But for men, they need to
more be in the doing vector.
So that's how men tend to bond.
That certainly makes sense.
OK, now let's talk
about what happens
when we're not
consciously making
decisions because we're asleep.
Say we're sleeping in the
same bed and the dynamics
of sleeping on say, this side
where your positive sides are
meeting versus the
other way, and moving
around during the night
and dreaming together
and on and on.
There's quite a lot
to the dream time.
Yes, and sleep is
such a crucial dynamic.
It's the main time when
we charge our souls--
as a matter of fact, we
don't charge our souls,
we go unconscious.
Not ourselves, our souls,
just in case anyone's
not hearing that.
And we don't charge our
souls, we go horizontal
and we plug into the
planet's energy grid,
and she charges us.
And with training you can learn
to see this because we have
the aura, but also the etheric,
which is the close in-band
around the head.
And when someone's going to
sleep, it gets very thin.
That's why we say sleep
tight before someone sleeps.
In the morning, the whole
system's got re-charged,
it's expanded, and
you look at someone
and say oh, you're wide awake.
So it goes through a
process of charging
through the hours of the night.
So how you sleep-- the position
you sleep in-- is important.
If you're sleeping
directly with somebody,
then there's an
exchange of energies
going on all through the night.
So this is also how men and
women come to be a bit more
like each other or even
look like each other
over years, because
if they're sleeping
together and exchanging
energies all night love as well,
it puts them on
the same frequency.
It also means,
though, that they can
even have each other's dreams.
REGINA: Yes.
Because dreams--
REGINA: Or be in
a dream together.
DAVID: Or be in
Dreams are caused
by energetics, this
is why the Native Americans
have those dream catchers.
They were not actually to
catch dreams, what the dream
catcher was for was
to catch the lower
energies which create dreams.
So when you get low
energies in a person's mind,
they create bad dreams.
So if, let's say, the man's
had a really rough day
and the woman's had an inspiring
day and they go and sleep
together, some of the woman's
inspiration passes to the man
and he feels better.
And some of the man's rough
day passes to the woman
and she feels not-so-better,
so they equalize out.
This is why it's a valid
question to question
sleeping arrangements.
Well, now that's another
thing I've noticed.
It's becoming more
and more common
for people to say you know,
I really feel like I want
to have my own sleeping space.
But again, I'm
noticing gender-wise
it seems to be more of the
women saying this than the men.
It tends to be
that the men draw
more of the charge from the
women than the other way
around.
REGINA: At night?
At night--
REGINA: The men are--
DAVID: The men are
drawing power because part
of the way the system's
designed is that the power rises
from the planet, it
comes into the women,
the women pass it to the men.
And so the women actually
provide the power
to the men, that's why if
the men suppress the women,
they lose power and they
start to become lesser as men.
So what happens if
you decide all right,
I'm going to sleep in
my little space or even
my own little room, and you can
sleep in yours-- what happens
to the men then when they
don't have the advantage
of the draw from the woman?
I mean, or single men.
How do they charge?
It just depends on the man.
They can get grumpy, they can
go and find somebody else.
They can also be in
their own process
and find that when they actually
get together with their partner
that the strength of
energy between them
is so much more enhanced
in their waking hours
that it's well worth
sleeping separately,
because they're able to get
closer to their authentic self.
REGINA: Yes.
Because they're not
mushing their energies
together all night long.
That's why, again, in
times gone by there'd
be the king's chamber
and the queen's chamber.
They'd have two rooms so
their energies could build.
And then when they
actually get together,
the energies have a
lot more spark rather
than running it all into one.
It's a bit like you've
got on the wedding
cake, the black and the white.
The black figure for the man,
the white figure for the woman,
they're showing to be
two different polarities.
What can happen over 10 years is
they both go gray because they
mush up the energies.
So actually, it can
improve a relationship
to sometimes sleep apart.
I've heard people that have
made that decision say that.
That they're more refreshed for
one, and yes, that whole notion
that you have your own energy
field around you at night
without any disturbance.
That makes sense, logically.
And to come back to
being one's own boss--
to think it through
with your partner
without the stereotypes
that come in,
and without the mattress
companies playing a part,
and without everybody
else who's saying oh,
that's what men and women do.
Once you're married,
you sleep together
for the rest of your life.
-Or what's wrong with you?
Hey, did you hear they
have separate beds now?
There's a stigma
attached to that still.
Which is where when
you have your own mind--
your own decision-making process
between the two partners--
it doesn't matter what the
rest of the street thinks.
But there's a strong
power of convention.
Convention, again, lives
in the lower energy world.
The higher we go in
terms of a partnership,
the more spiritual a partnership
becomes, the brighter
the energies in the house.
To the point where
they can actually
be a glow around both
partners, and they
actually anchor and produce a
healing energy in the house.
Which to me, the difference
between a house and a home
is the energies that
are generated in it.
So the energies that are
generated into the house
create the feeling of the home.
If what's produced
are toxic energies,
then you actually get a toxic
atmosphere in the house.
And someone walking
into it is like, ooh--
if they're sensitive-- they
go ooh, I don't like this,
I want out.
If they're actually both,
let's say, altruistic
and they're actually
into the healing arts,
then what can happen
is you can get
a beautiful yellow and green
atmosphere in the house,
and people are
attracted to come around
because they feel better.
REGINA: Right.
And so relationships can
lift us up, can bring us down,
and there's nothing that helps--
I believe-- human development
faster than being in
a right relationship,
and there's nothing that
blocks it more thoroughly
than being in a relationship
that's not working.
Let's talk about
that because we
get into the subject of
destiny, and each one of us
is born with our own destiny.
And when you're
in a relationship,
it seems as though oftentimes
one person's destiny--
if not both-- are
completely squashed
and left by the wayside for the
compromises that happen to come
together, raise a family,
make the right amount
of money, and so forth.
So if we lived in a
spiritually-based society--
which is where I love the
idea of a global consciousness
network.
If we lived in a
spiritually-based society,
our focus would be on
spiritual development
and how we can improve
as human beings.
Relationships would
be part of the support
system towards that.
That's why-- I believe it
once was in very early Egypt--
there's been certain
times in world history
where there's been successful,
spiritual societies.
Imagine you walk down the
street, instead of seeing
a big placard advertising a car,
it would say something like,
have you been kind to
your partner today?
Yes.
DAVID: Or it would
say something like,
remember your next
thought counts
towards your reincarnation.
Instead of advertisements
for whatever it might be
that's coming at you.
REGINA: Buy Coke.
Or whatever it may
be because right now,
there's tens of millions
of human hours going
into this very day, how to
influence us in the direction
of being persuaded to
buy products, which
are feeding a profit motive.
And that is not helping
towards our spiritual purpose
or progress or development.
So because the
tide of our culture
works against
spiritual development,
it takes brave people
to actually say,
I'm going the other direction.
So you have to really state
your own desire and purpose
in a relationship right up
front, and this-- ideally,
if you have a spiritual
overarching component
to it-- the relationship,
you're saying,
should be constructed to serve
your spiritual development.
DAVID: Yes.
Individually, which will create
this beautiful third entity.
And then both
partner's destiny is
enhanced-- which
doesn't mean they're
going to the same place.
It's like the idea that
oh, when you go to heaven,
you're with the person you've
been with for 40 years.
You might not want
to by that point.
But also, simply the fact
that you've helped each other
through this planetary journey.
So this journey is a
70, 80, 90-year journey.
It's short.
It's an amazing thing
with human beings,
we don't know
where we came from,
we don't know where
we're going to,
but we're meant to
know what we're doing.
And we're asleep, one-third
of our lives are unconscious,
and we see the world through
two little holes in the front
of our face, but we're
meant to be able to have
the perfect relationship.
-Yes.
DAVID: And it's a challenge.
REGINA: It is a challenge.
It's a real challenge.
So sharing is part of how
we can help each other,
but when one partner
dominates the other--
REGINA: Not possible.
And when one is spending
themselves trying to please
the other, still not possible.
Either way.
Let's talk about-- we only have
a few minutes left, I mean,
the time has flown--
but one thing
that you write about is
the three tests of time
and how we can
strengthen a relationship
over the three tests of time.
What are they?
OK, first is the 28 days.
So that was the moon's cycle.
And there's a flash that
you think oh, he looks good,
she looks good.
You kick each
other's tires and you
go no, the advertising
looked good
but it doesn't
really quite work.
Skin deep.
REGINA: By this
time you're usually
going into some kind of
fear and in-authenticity
which will blow it apart anyway.
Right, so it's
over after 28 days.
Second level is that seven
year itch, 28 seasons.
So that's a full cycle of
the planet, and by that point
there'd better be something
beyond the original passion
to sustain the relationship.
So now you need purpose.
And so what's the third one?
So everything hinges on what's
been done with the passion, so
the third one is then the
mutually-agreed purpose
or the map.
The third one is the 28
year, Saturnian time cycle.
Yeah, Saturn return.
We all go through it.
Yes, the Saturn return.
That one is more to do
with the coding that's
in the brain and the mind.
So if after the seven
years there's an agreement
to do with mutual purpose--
it can be raising children,
and that can hold
a couple together
for the 28-year cycle--
but then if they're
going to hold through for
another 28 years-- or 7 years
or 14 years, whatever-- they
need to be reassessing what's
the purpose of our life now?
What's it for?
It calls for a lot
of communication
and then deliberate building
and putting into the field
what it is that they want.
So we better become conscious.
DAVID: It's all about
becoming more conscious--
Well, and you've
written about it
in your book that you can find
for $19.95 instead of $291--
Yes, you can.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Thank you so much, this
is just fascinating.
What a well of
inspiration for finding
the correct relationship, or
re-charging and redefining
the one we're already in.
If you'd like to dig a little
deeper into this potential,
you can pick up a copy
of "Partners in Passion"
at David's online store
at energyworlds.com.
David also does
regular workshops,
which should be very
enlightening considering
what we've heard today.
So again, go to his site
for more information.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here at Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]